Friends, welcome to Word on Fire Catholic Ministries.
Word on Fire is an apostolate dedicated to the mission of evangelization.
using media both old and new to share the faith on every continent and to facilitate an encounter with Christ and His Church.
The efforts of Word on Fire engage the culture and bring the transformative power of God's Word where it is most needed.
Today, we invite you to join Bishop Robert Barron as he preaches the Gospel and shares the warmth and light of Christ with each one of us.
Peace be with you. Friends, we come to this 17th Sunday in Ordinary Time, and we have a great privilege because we're reading in our Gospel Luke's account today.
Jesus' great prayer.
So the disciples say, "Lord, teach us how to pray." And so Jesus himself
It tells them how to pray. So it's a very sacred moment. And I think we should move into that space where Rant is asking a guru or asking someone that we admire or ask.
They're asking the Son of God,
How do I pray? And, you know, we become so familiar with the Our Father that I think we forget the spiritual power of it. So what I want to do is just kind of walk.
walk through. And each of the evangelists has a somewhat different take, and Luke's got a few examples.
distinctive features.
But here's how it begins. Jesus says, "When you pray, say,
Father,
Hallowed be your name.
So first of all, and again, I know we pray this prayer all the time, and so it just kind of runs through our mind.
But pause at that opening word.
Father.
God is power, yes. God is the first cause of all things, yes. God is the sovereign master of the universe, yes. All that's true.
But Jesus says now, when you pray, when you invoke God, you don't begin with those titles.
You begin with this.
Very intimate title
Father.
Think of that relationship with your father, right?
The intimacy.
That's implied.
The tenderness of it.
That's how we approach
The creator of the entire cosmos.
When you pray the Our Father next time, let that sink in. Pause.
At that opening word, "Father, Father."
But no, I'm going to press a little bit, even beyond this point.
Because precisely as Christians,
Another dimension opens up here.
Jesus is in the unique sense
The son of the father.
right from all eternity he's the son within the life of the Trinity
What's he doing now?
And he's inviting us, listen now, as the Son of God, right?
The one who really alone is justified in referring to the Father.
But he's inviting us.
To share in that relationship that he has with his father.
So we're not simply signaling, as important as that is, our sort of tender childlike relationship to God. Something even more,
We're praying
In union with the sun
We become sons and daughters in the sun. When we pray,
We're not outside of God so much petitioning. We're invited by Jesus inside.
inside the very life of the Trinity.
think about that everybody.
Next time you say,
Our father
It's our in the sense of all of us, but even more powerfully,
I'm saying it with Jesus.
He's the son, yes, in that unique sense.
But we're sons and daughters in the sun.
And in that relationship, we pray.
And then what's the first thing?
We ask.
"Hell" will be your name.
I know it sounds peculiar to the modern English ear. I mean, what it means is, you know,
May your name be held holy.
And you say, well, okay, isn't God's name always holy? Well, yeah, it is in itself, right?
The prayer is, "May we
Hold this name holy. Now, what does holy mean in the Bible?
Kaddosh in the Hebrew.
Has the sense of
Other.
Of
Set apart.
as distinctive. That's what holy means.
So, Father,
May we hold your name as
set apart. Now, what does that mean?
It means
God
Is without competition.
The highest good
so there's all the goods in the world that we seek. you know i talk about all the time pleasure and fame and power and honor and all this.
Good things and we seek them
But above them all, in an absolutely unique and qualitatively different sense.
is the goodness of God.
Deuteronomy chapter 6, the Shema prayer. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is God alone.
No competition.
Remember in the accounts of the Ten Commandments, I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God.
It doesn't mean God's having emotional problems. It means he's distinctive, Kaddosh, set apart, holy, holy.
Hallowed.
It's a very powerful scene. It's the opening move of the prayer is if we get this wrong, see, everything else will be wrong. If God is one good among many or God's like, he's number one.
He's number four on my list of priorities. Right.
Ah, the whole spiritual life's off kilter.
"Hallowed be your name, you're the highest good, you are the summum bonum."
It's a very important move in the spiritual order.
Then we pray what?
Your kingdom come.
And your will be done,
on earth as in heaven.
I've said before to you, I think, that in many ways, this is the whole of the Christian spiritual life. So to get this right, and that's why Jesus places right at the heart of the
of the prayer.
So your kingdom come.
Jesus preaching.
It's is ordered to this idea, isn't it?
That's what's on his lips when he begins preaching in the hills of Galilee is the kingdom of God is at hand.
Every move he makes is meant to embody and express the kingdom.
1. What's the kingdom? 2
It's God's way of ordering things.
God's way of ordering things, God's law
Now,
That obtains always in heaven
So that's the eternal law that's identical to the divine mind.
It's the way the realm of the saints and angels is ordered according to love and to justice and peace.
What are we praying?
I mean, may that ordering that obtains always in heaven, right?
Become the ordering of the earth.
May your kingdom come your will be done
Here,
As it is there.
We're praying for a correspondence.
Now, Catholics, listen.
Every single time we come together for the Mass,
We are begging for and indeed
Embodying this correspondence.
When we say, for example,
at the Holy Holy.
May our voices blend with theirs.
We're talking about
the song of the angels right
That means the ordering of things in heaven. May our voices hear that
harmonize with their voices in heaven.
We're asking for a union.
of heaven and earth.
By the way, what are the angels singing? We'll go to the prophet Isaiah, Kaddosh, Kaddosh, Kaddosh.
Holy holy holy
Now, see, bring these first parts of the Our Father together. Hallowed be your name. That's the ordering of heaven, you see.
That's what it's like to be in the kingdom of heaven.
We're praying that
That order would become the order of the earth.
Ah, boy, as I say, the whole of the Christian life, moral life, spiritual life, the life of prayer and liturgy, all of it.
Is contained in that great petition.
And then this, I love, because it's so mysterious.
Give us each day our daily bread.
The Greek behind this is very intriguing because it's unique really to the Gospels.
The Greek here is
2020.
Our toss means bread in Greek, right?
What is epi-uzion?
Well, epi, epi, is like an intensifier. It means on.
I'm a bishop, for example, and the word episkopos, episkopos,
Well, scopae means to look, and episcopae means to look.
Out on.
All right. So I'm an overseer of the life of the church. That's what Episcopalist means. Well, here we have Ephesians
Epi-uzion
Well, "usia" means
Substance.
We say, for example, that Jesus is one substance with the Father.
So "et-vi-us-yos" means
Super substantial.
It means
Substantial to the highest degree.
It's curious, isn't it? So we pray, give us grace.
are
Super substantial bread
St. Jerome, when he was rendering this Greek text into Latin in the Vulgate, look it up. Go online, look it up.
He says,
Panem super substancialum.
That's exactly it. Our super substantial bread. Yeah.
Now, a lot of reasons, you know, take me too far afield. Why we say daily, right?
But the Greek is
Super substantial.
Okay
What bread are we asking for?
We're not just asking for the bread that will feed our bodies. That's the point.
Give us each day this super substantial bread.
we Catholics know what he's talking about
We talk about
The Eucharistic
Bread,
being
Trans substantiated
into the body of Christ.
Not ordinary bread,
And that's just a symbol of Christ.
Who cares?
But,
The super substantial bread
That's it.
That's what we're asking for in the Our Father.
"'Give us each day, Lord.'"
And not just the bread that will keep us alive physically, right?
But the bread that will keep us alive spiritually.
Think about that, please, everybody. Next time you pray the Our Father, you come to that line.
about the daily bread.
and then of course.
Forgive us our sins, right?
As we forgive those who trespass against us.
Jesus came for all kinds of reasons to teach us and to inspire us and so on, but you could argue
The main reason he came.
Was to affect the forgiveness of our sins.
You know, Fulton Sheen says this so powerfully in his life of Christ, that the temptation of the devil gave him the beginning of his public life.
We're in the direction of being a Messiah for other purposes.
You know, to be a bread messiah, to feed the people, to be a wonder worker messiah, to do wonderful things.
And Jesus resists those.
No, I have come.
To die for the forgiveness of sins. That's why he's come.
And so this prayer, see, is to...
order us to this great truth about Jesus.
He's come.
to forgive our sins. And so we beg to be drawn into the power of that forgiveness. But then, as we forgive,
Because we're forgiven sinners.
We forgive those who have offended us.
Not just that we're nice guys and nice gals.
But because,
We've been so loved and forgiven.
That spills over into the forgiveness of those who've harmed us.
And then this is something unique to Luke and I'll close with this.
He says, "Do not subject us to the final test."
This is a very basic biblical idea. You see it in many places in the Old Testament. The expectation that
Just before the coming of the Messiah,
There'd be a time of trial.
There'd be a time of testing.
that something awful would happen and people would be tried, see, before the Messiah comes. And so Jesus is tapping into this idea that as we're preparing for
Erring for the coming of the Messiah, it says,
We're aware of
The spiritual struggle
And see everybody,
I think this is so basic in the spiritual life.
It's not just, hey, we're nice people, nice modern people trying to be good-hearted and be nice to our neighbors. I mean, that's fine. But the spiritual life is...
Is it's a struggle.
It's a war, as Paul said, against powers and principalities.
We're up against powers that we can't see.
And they're not happy
When we come into deeper communion with Christ, trust me when I tell you this, they're not happy about it.
What are we praying for here at the end of the prayer is for strength.
And for courage.
to face down the spiritual powers that don't want us in union with Christ. I like the spiritual seriousness with which this prayer ends.
Okay
So, open your Bibles, take a look at this section of Luke.
And read through this prayer.
Slowly.
And with great spiritual attention. And next time you pray it at Mass, or next time you pray it in your morning prayers or evening prayers,
Remember these great moves.
God bless you.
Thank you for listening to this week's homily from Bishop Robert Barron.
For more resources from Bishop Barron, please visit wordonfire.org.